hi how are you doing I hope you're
having a lovely day and had a good week
today I just wanted to sit down and kind
of go through the basics of micros it's
so Welland when you first start out in
the gym or even just throughout your
fitness journey in terms of like
nutrition knowing where to start finding
it super overwhelming because there's
just so much information everyone's got
an opinion and everything and at the end
of the day it is just finding what works
for you this is an approach that's like
personally change the game for me and my
like lifestyle I feel like has helped me
have such a free and flexible way of
reaching my fitness goals and everything
like that yeah I would just cover as
much as I can and go to sort of the
basics of it or try and simplify it
because there's so much content out
those were before we get straight into
it if you could hit this with a like I
really appreciated it as always it
really supports my channel I'm gonna go
ahead so with the basics your macros and
macronutrients consist of your protein
carbs and fats so obviously you probably
already know that but they are the main
things that your body needs for energy
and just a function on a whole now if
you're snoring in the background
Penelope it's not sleep time before I
found sort of tracking right because
I've tried every single diet going so
many fads nothing that truly helps me it
was many very restrictive stuff that I
tried that said don't have bread or like
crazy stuff like that
whereas calculating my macros and
tracking those there's no elimination of
any food group as long as it fits within
your macros and you will be so surprised
just starting with like the basics I
think these are really important and
it's so good to know the science behind
everything that you're doing and eating
so your protein and carbohydrates have
four calories per gram and fats have
nine calories per gram and the first few
steps obviously you need to calculate
your personal ones and there are so many
free online macro calculators which are
really useful there are some that are
more useful or yet less useful than
others but basically the more info that
it asks about yourself
better release you can get a clearer
idea but just to really mention and
reiterate you can't go a hundred percent
off these calculators use it as your
first little starting point and just go
from there and make little tweaks to
make sure it suits you and your scene
progression so I'll leave a link to some
micro calculators down below you can
also do it manually using a formula the
general process you need to work out
your BMR which is your basal metabolic
rate how much energy your body uses at a
rest and this is just based on your
gender your high and your way when she
worked out your BMR you need to work out
your activity level which is going to be
so different
for each person's person I did mention
this in my recent fitness mistakes video
on how this is exactly why we can't
compare or use imitate someone else's
calories or macros anything like that
because we all have very different
activity levels but your BMR is
multiplied by an activity factor and
that's where your calories get increased
and worked out based on your like
overall activity level in that
calculation gets you to your total daily
energy expenditure is tdee
at this point is where you adjust your
macros and calories based on what your
goals are if you're wanting to lose
weight you can decrease your calories
from around 15 to 25 percent range if
weight gain is a goal then you increase
your power Aries from 5 to 15 percent
and obviously if you're just wanting to
maintain then keep them at that level
then your protein intake should be
anything from zero point seven to two
grams per pound of body weight and a fat
intake should be anything from 0.25 to
0.4 grams per pound of body weight as
well and then the rest you can sort of
make up within your carbohydrates safe
weight loss is your main goal
idea is to decrease your calories but
increase your protein intake and femur
protein is it preserves your lean muscle
mass whilst you're losing body fat and
she's got like a calculation if used an
online calculator or use the phone here
itself honey you can work out how much
protein carbs and fats that you need to
consume each day to reach whatever goal
you have in mind now in terms of meeting
your macros I'm just going to show you I
use my fitness pal this is what I've
used from the beginning it's so simple
and easy to use it's free as well there
are some like premium feature that I
think you can pay for I've just got a
normal watch do it like breakfast lunch
dinner snacks if I want to input
something then you can scan the barcode
or milky bar and orange and you can type
in the grams you can use a scale like
this I got this off Amazon I will leave
this linked down below so you get into
doing it after a couple of times it's
really easy and simple to sort of
monitor before even sort of tracking
right because I'd just get like a rough
idea of what you generally eat like by
just tracking a day just how you
normally eat I do that to found when I
started tracking my macros that I was
like pretty much than 90 percent
carbohydrate which explains so much to
me I used to have like little energy
throughout the day I would just feel
quite drained and stuff and that's just
because I didn't have like my meals
didn't consist of all three proteins
carbs and fats and since sort of
incorporates in that as well as your
micronutrients I'm a lot fuller I feel
so much more energised by in like
incorporating all of those into like
each for me or honestly it's crazy how
much for difference I've seen in like my
mood as well as to be honest by using My
Fitness Pal you can actually see what
foods are higher in your proteins carbs
and fats which is so useful if you're
thinking wait hang on how do I know it's
higher in protein something I've really
learned from my experience with tracking
is that it's not one-size-fits-all by
any means I've adjusted and changed
things quite a lot and I figured my body
type really suits a high protein diet
and then to mention to is just that
don't stress like saying
go over all you're really under like
it's just a whole process and should be
patient with yourself as well like don't
put so much added pressure or anything
cuz there's just no need at the end of
the day it's a lifestyle and you want to
live a happy lifestyle
you've probably got heard of calorie
counting before that doesn't take that
much consideration into the macro side
of thing we could be eaten 2500 calories
worth of chocolate and I know myself I
would still be absolutely starving and
that's what I think like it's not how
much you're eating it really is that
what you're eating I think when it comes
to food as well you've really got to
understand it affects your mind your
physical body they feel the difference
by filling and fueling your body we like
goodness quite a few points in this
something to mention that I don't think
have already said counting your macros I
really just remember as well but like
it's not just like a one time
calculation so we see our energy
expenditure may change like given
circumstances at the moment like a lot
of people still in quarantine and stuff
and not moving as much so there's a lot
of like considerations and it is just
something that it's good to monitor and
some people perform well with a much
much higher fat diet or lower carb high
protein for example myself you can
really experiment with it and make it
work for you I tried high fat diet I've
tried a high carb diet and lower carb
diet and now I found like a high protein
diet works for me the best in terms of
like mentally as well and I feel so much
more energized by no means am I saying
that this is gonna work for everyone or
be suitable if if you're someone who's
got a health condition and it is
responding what works for you as well as
like if you don't have a good and
balanced healthy relationship with food
I would never want this to trigger any
sort of disordered eating
Lenz's to the end of this video I really
hope this was useful if you have any
questions just pop them in the comments
down below and also let me know what
videos you be interested in seeing next
or he'd like me to cover anything I
really enjoy doing these sort of
sit-down informative videos if you
haven't already I would love you to
stick around and subscribe to my channel
and I'll see you guys in the next video